(upbeat music)
All right, let's talk
about security in JavaScript.
While much of security comes from running JavaScript
on the server side or any server side language,
that's where most of your security comes in.
Things like encryption, and certificates,
and firewalls, and white listing IPs.
Things like that.
Rate limiting, all of those things happen
generally on the server side,
however there are a couple places in front end JavaScript,
when you're building stuff in the browser
that you can accidentally shoot yourself in the foot
so this is the video where we are gonna go through
those things just so you can sort have them top of mind
and know that you're not accidentally
going to be committing security violations.
So, first thing we need to talk about
is JavaScript is totally public.
What does that mean?
Well we already know this
because if you open up your desk tools
and you go to your sources,
or you go to your network or anything like that,
you're able to see all of the code
that is related to your website.
So anything, you're essentially shipping all of your code
off to the browser and telling the browser to run it.
So, it would be the equivalent
of like something like Photoshop,
just giving you all of the code.
And say, hey run it yourself.
That's what the browser's doing.
We just give it the code,
and we tell it to run it ourselves.
So that means that anything that you put
in your source code is not safe.
Meaning, don't put sensitive information
in your client side JavaScript.
So don't trust the client
because even if there's some people
that you can obfuscate it,
you can maybe try to hide it a whole bunch of ways,
or encrypt it,
but as long as the browser can read it,
there's going to be somebody that's able
to reverse engineer this type of thing.
So, a couple examples.
API keys.
Sometimes it's okay to put API keys in the browser
and we'll look at an example like that coming up.
And sometimes it's not okay to put API keys in the browser.
And generally, when it's not okay
to put API keys in the browser,
they will restrict you the via Coors.
So things like a Google Map API key,
that's absolutely fine to put
into your client side JavaScript
because those API keys are going to be limited.
Google will limit those per domain or per visitor.
So you don't have to worry about that.
Links to private downloads.
So if you have like a object on your page somewhere,
and you need to be able to download a zip file of some thing
people will be able to find that.
Prices, this is a huge one.
I see this all the time.
People build a quick little JavaScript client side.
And they check out, they put the price in like a button,
but if somebody is able to change the price of that button
or change the code of that or whatever,
they are able modify in the client
when you send the price over,
then they'll be able to change the price
to whatever it is that they want.
So, I've seen this in the past,
where people have job boards
and a job board is $10 to post a job,
and spammers change the price to one cent,
and then just post thousands of messages
to thousands of different job boards.
In my advance react course,
we of course calculate the price on the client side,
because we want to show the total of the person's cart,
but then you also have to recalculate that on the server
where it could not be messed with.
I have this with my courses all the time.
People change the price to one cent
'cause they find the object where the price is
and they change it to one cent and then they send it,
and it looks like the check out
is gonna charge them one cent,
and they put in their credit card and everything,
and then it charges them the full price
'cause they double check that value on the server side
and recalculate it.
And it's pretty funny,
I've gotten a couple emails from people
being like, bravo, keep the money for the course,
I was just checking if I can get it for a penny.
So that is, don't trust the client.
Anything that is sensitive must be recalculated
or done on the server where it is in a secure environment.
Next is XSS and sanitizing your inputs.
So, I whipped up this little example
of FarceBook right here.
And this is a pretty common thing where you want to do,
you want to give somebody a place
where they can type in their name,
or a bio, or something like that,
and then you want to take that and display it on the page.
Now in some cases, you just have a text input
with just raw text.
But, however, in some other cases,
you want to generate HTML,
or even take in HTML from the user
and display it on the page.
Not an uncommon thing to do
and quite honestly this is what we've done
in a lot of our looping where we set the inner HTML.
So this is the rule,
anytime you are taking data from a user
and embedding it in HTML,
now text content is fine,
but anytime you using .innerHTML
or .insertadjacentHTML,
or anything where you're taking user data
and generating HTML from that, you must first sanitize it.
So this is a really simple example that I've got right here.
Where I allow the person to type in here
and when they type,
we are automatically just dumping that into their profile.
And this data could be coming from anywhere.
Most likely you give somebody a field
to type in on the back end
and they save it and then it displays
on their profile page or on a form or something like that.
So what can happen is you might want to allow people
to put images, image tags, and you might want people
to do mark and M and strong tags and things like that.
Maybe we'll do something like style tag
and it'll give a selector of a body, background red.
Boom!
Okay they've just changed the background to be red.
Okay.
Well they can maybe do something like font size 40px.
Oh, whoa!
That's really big.
Okay.
Or they could say trans, let me take that font size down,
so I can actually type here.
Transform,
rotate 20 degrees.
Oh my gosh!
Okay. (laughs)
Then you're allowing somebody to write code
that runs on your page and style,
like obviously you don't want to allow people
to totally goof up your website like that.
And that's probably the least of your worries
is somebody goofing with it.
They can even do something like display none.
Boom!
Now the entire website is gone.
If I hit backspace,
I can't even hit backspace 'cause it's totally gone.
I have to refresh the page in order to get it to work.
So that's like your first line of defense,
somebody can just inject styles,
but the reality is the much scarier security thing
is if somebody can run JavaScript on your page.
So anytime a user is able to run JavaScript on your page,
then you are in trouble.
So you might think okay,
well let's, let me just get a quick little script tag,
and we'll do the very basics, we'll just alert.
This is always how people show
that there's an successful mobility.
They hacked.
Oh!
It doesn't seem to do anything.
Okay, so the script tags won't do that,
but you can take an image tag
and hijack the onload event of the image tag
and then in here you can write any JavaScript you want,
like alert, see it just ran.
Hacked.
Boom!
Right?
And you might say like, oh cool you can alert something,
but like imagine this was your Facebook profile,
and you're allowed to run code
on anyone who's viewing your Facebook profile.
So you can do something like document.querySelector
and we want to grab that button up there
and then we'll just trigger a click on it.
Boom!
Send a million dollars.
Right?
So if somebody else is allowed to run JavaScript
then they become a puppet of your own account,
and you can't stop it.
And they're able to do things
like click buttons on behalf of you,
or they could grab some of your messages
and send them with a fetch request back to their own server.
The sky's the limit there.
So the onload in the onerror,
so if you had another, I got to get rid of this,
I can't even type!
Onerror on images will also work
so image source equals httpnothing.com
and let's put something that doesn't exist.
And then we'll say onerror is equal to alert,
see there we go.
It's running again.
Hacked.
Can barely type 'cause it pops up every time that it runs,
so that's how people do XSS.
That's how people do cross-site scripting
is they find a way to remotely run JavaScript
on somebody's page and almost always what they'll do
is they'll just hookup and image tag
and they'll say onerror of this image
then go ahead and fetch
some malicious JavaScript from somewhere else
and now somebody that you don't trust
is running JavaScript on your website to logged in users
and that's very, very scary, very bad.
Other examples of stuff that might not be malicious
but it's just kind of annoying,
is that somebody could take one of your images
and put a width of like 2,000 pixels on it
and now I've got a huge horizontal scrolling website.
Right?
So you need to be very careful
when you're taking in data from a user,
even if it's just a tiny little input box
someone could go into an input box,
like let me show you right here.
We go here, they just add input type of text,
someone could write their name in here,
my name is Wes and then they also take
an image source, whatever,
and then they use the onload trick there
and we don't want to be in that case.
So anytime you're taking user data
and putting it into HTML,
you must first sanitize it
and luckily there's a very easy library to use,
it's called DOMPurify,
and it will take in a string
and scrub it of all of those potentially nasty
or security issues for you.
So I've already went ahead and MPM installed DOMPurify
and up here at the top of this code here,
I've imported the sanitize method from DOMPurify
and then all we need to do to fix this
is to say const clean is equal to sanitize
we pass it the input.value
and we'll go here, we'll clean.replace.
I'm just replacing the line breaks here with a br tag
and that allows me to get these line breaks in between.
This is a red jecks.
This is a red jecks that searches
for new lines and globally,
meaning that it will find them all
and replaces with that br tag.
Good.
So now I've done that and I can go to this image tag
and say onload is equal to alert hacked
and now it no longer works, why?
If I inspect this seal here,
you'll see that they have stripped out
that potentially security vulnerability
of the onload onerror,
all of those in line event handlers on the image tag.
So you might say, okay what about style tags?
Did they do that?
Here.
And we'll say body background red.
Okay.
That doesn't seem to be working,
it still has a style tag being embedded,
in fact, you can inspect element on here
and you can see the style tag
is still being embedded in here.
So, what we need to do to fix that
is to pass some options to DOMPurify.
So by default it'll take all the nasty JavaScript stuff
out of there for us,
but there's a bunch of different options that you have.
The two that I use are forbid tags
and forbid attributes.
So we can go in here
and pass a secondary options object here,
and we'll call it forbid attributes.
We want to forbid width,
height,
and style.
'Cause we don't want people doing
in line styles as well on there.
And you might want to allow them
and in that case you take if off.
And then we also want forbid tags
and we want to forbid the style tag.
Okay, now if I try to use the style tag,
it no longer changes that off to be red.
If we take a look at our, take a look,
you see that style tag has been totally removed.
I can go ahead and try to use a script tag.
Hi.
Doesn't work either.
There's a bunch of other little tricks that people have
and it's nice knowing that this library
will just take care of all of those for you.
So that is the basics of the security that you need to...
The last little thing I want to talk to you
about security is when you are sending data,
always make sure that you're sending it to an HTTPS origin
and the reason behind that is that if you have an API
that's like dogsapi.com,
if you are like getting, which means you pull data,
if you get the dogs over a insecure origin HTTP,
there could be other people on the Wi-Fi network
or in the government or anywhere along the line
of you requesting that,
that would be able to just look into that request
and they can peer in and say,
huh, Wes, is interested in some weird dogs.
And that's interesting to us.
And then on the flip side, when you do post,
which means that you push data to the API.
Maybe you're creating or updating a dog,
then they would be able to see
all of the data that you are sending
as well as they can possibly modify it
and say like I like a weird dog,
like a dog dalmatian or something like that.
So if you make it an HTTPS,
all of that data going to and back from the API
will be encrypted and you want to make sure
that every API that you are using is encrypted.
It's not so much of an issue,
I've honestly never run into an API that isn't encrypted,
but just something to keep in mind when you have there.
That's it.
That's kind of what I think
the base security things will be.
Just keep it in mind.
The big one is whenever you take data
from a user and embed it into HTML,
make sure you sanitize it first,
otherwise you're gonna get got.